# Introduction
In May 2018 a 31-year-old man identified as "Mr. Ao" was being sought out by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) on the charge of having committed "economic crimes", the man was located and arrested in a crowd of 60,000 spectator at a concert by the singer Jacky Cheung from Hong Kong.

## History
Automated facial recognition was pioneered in the 1960s. Woody Bledsoe, Helen Chan Wolf, and Charles Bisson worked on using the computer to recognize human faces. Their early facial recognition project was called "man-machine" because the coordinates of the facial features in a photograph had to be established by a human before they could be used by the computer for recognition. 

In 1970, Takeo Kanade publicly demonstrated a face matching system that located anatomical features such as the chin and calculated the distance ratio between facial features without human intervention. Later tests revealed that the system could not always reliably identify facial features.

In 1993, the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA) and the Army Research Laboratory (ARL) established the face recognition technology program FERET to develop "automatic face recognition capabilities" that could be employed in a productive real life environment "to assist security, intelligence, and law enforcement personnel in the performance of their duties." Face recognition systems that had been trialed in research labs were evaluated and the FERET tests found that while the performance of existing automated facial recognition systems varied, a handful of existing methods could viably be used to recognize faces in still images taken in a controlled environment.

Following the 1993 FERET face recognition vendor test the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) offices in West Virginia and New Mexico were the first DMV offices to use automated facial recognition systems as a way to prevent and detect people obtaining multiple driving licenses under different names.

Until the 1990s facial recognition systems were developed primarily by using photographic portraits of human faces. Research on face recognition to reliably locate a face in an image that contains other objects gained traction in the early 1990s with the principle component analysis (PCA). The PCA method of face detection is also known as Eigenface and was developed by Matthew Turk and Alex Pentland. Turk and Pentland combined the conceptual approach of the Karhunen–Loève theorem and factor analysis, to develop a linear model. 

Real-time face detection in video footage became possible in 2001 with the Viola–Jones object detection framework for faces. Paul Viola and Michael Jones combined their face detection method with the Haar-like feature approach to object recognition in digital images to launch AdaBoost, the first real-time frontal-view face detector. By 2015 the Viola-Jones algorithm had been implemented using small low power detectors on handheld devices and embedded systems. Therefore, the Viola-Jones algorithm has not only broadened the practical application of face recognition systems but has also been used to support new features in user interfaces and teleconferencing.
